Adds QDE in Azure (#205)
chocolatey/docs: input/en-us/quick-deployment/azure/index.md

---

> Order: 10

Reviewer: With a value of 10 here, it means that a new menu item for QDE in Azure will appear before the other entries, as per this screenshot:

![2021-07-13_15-39-34](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1271146/125471928-ccadec64-2cee-4278-be87-173e21190fff.png)

Is this what is wanted?

Author: My apologies, I thought the hierarchy was at a folder level so it would only apply to the quick-deployment/azure items. I'll change it.

Author: Ah, I hadn't clocked that the _Index_ order affects the folder. Gotcha! Sorry for my missing it.

xref: qdeazure
Title: Quick Deployment Environment in Azure
Description: High level information about QDE in Azure

> RedirectFrom: docs/quick-deployment-environment-in-azure

Reviewer: This is a completely new page, that hasn't existed in the docs before, right? If so, we don't need a RedirectFrom line here.

> :memo: **NOTE**
>
> A QDE environment is a fully functional Chocolatey for Business (C4B) environment; as such, it will require a business or trial license.

## QDE Components / Overview

For an overview of QDE, please refer to the existing [QDE Documentation](xref:qde).

## Prerequisites

Currently, to deploy QDE in Azure you will need:

* A Chocolatey for Business License, or Trial License
* An account with [Contributor](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/role-based-access-control/built-in-roles#contributor) access to an Azure subscription
* The ability to create a CNAME DNS record for your chosen FQDN
* A valid certificate for your chosen FQDN, in PFX format, with exported private key

For portions of this document using PowerShell, we assume you have installed a recent version of the [Az modules](https://www.powershellgallery.com/packages/Az/), and have logged in to your account using `Connect-AzAccount`.

## Deploying QDE in Azure

QDE is available as a deployable resource in the [Microsoft Azure Marketplace](https://portal.azure.com/#blade/Microsoft_Azure_Marketplace/MarketplaceOffersBlade/selectedMenuItemId/home).

> Find the Chocolatey Software QDE resource, and click `Create`. You will be taken to the `Create a [TODO]` page.

Author: I don't yet know what this label will say. We will find out as part of GitLab issue 11, 'Create an Offer'.

Fill your intended domain name in, select and upload your PFX certificate, and enter the password for the certificate.

![Custom Domain Configuration](/assets/images/quickdeployazure/DomainView-CustomDomain.png)

> :memo: **NOTE**
>
> The PFX certificate must contain the exported private key, and should be protected with a password.  
> A guide to creating a PFX certificate can be found [here](https://www.sslmarket.co.uk/ssl/how-to-create-an-pfx-file).

### Internalize Packages

You can select packages to directly internalize from the [Chocolatey Community Repository](https://community.chocolatey.org/packages/).

We offer some suggested bundles of packages (see below), a selection of popular packages, and the ability to specify a custom list.

| Bundle  | Contains                                                          |
| ------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------- |
| All     | Google Chrome, Mozilla Firefox, Microsoft Edge, ...               |
| Minimal | Google Chrome                                                     |

> | None    | -                                                                 |

Author: This table will be updated as part of card 19, 'Add Internalised Package Defaults'.

if ($KeyVault.AccessPolicies.Where{$_.DisplayName -like "*$CurrentUser*"}.PermissionsToSecrets -notcontains 'get') {
    Set-AzKeyVaultAccessPolicy -VaultName $KeyVault.VaultName -UserPrincipalName $CurrentUser -PermissionsToSecrets @('get')
}

Write-Host "QDE Passwords for '$($KeyVault.ResourceGroupName)':"
@{
    CCM     = Get-AzKeyVaultSecret -VaultName $KeyVault.VaultName -Name ccmPassword -AsPlainText
    Nexus   = Get-AzKeyVaultSecret -VaultName $KeyVault.VaultName -Name nexusPassword -AsPlainText
    Jenkins = Get-AzKeyVaultSecret -VaultName $KeyVault.VaultName -Name jenkinsPassword -AsPlainText
}
```

*or*

Download and use [Get-AzLabCredential.ps1](https://gist.githubusercontent.com/JPRuskin/a8e438c534a471749fe3c38c948882e8/raw/Get-AzLabCredential.ps1) (which automatically handles permissions), as follows:

```PowerShell
$CcmCredential     = .\Get-AzLabCredential.ps1 -ResourceGroupName $ResourceGroupName -SecretPrefix ccm
$NexusCredential   = .\Get-AzLabCredential.ps1 -ResourceGroupName $ResourceGroupName -SecretPrefix nexus
$JenkinsCredential = .\Get-AzLabCredential.ps1 -ResourceGroupName $ResourceGroupName -SecretPrefix jenkins

> ```

Author: I can remove this if it's inappropriate.

## FAQ

### Known Issues

Though we've taken care to write things with an eye towards idempotence and recoverability, here are some errors that you may end up seeing:

> Status Message: Exist soft deleted vault with the same name.  (Code:ConflictError)

This can happen when you've deployed QDE in Azure, deleted the Resource Group, and then redeployed it with the same name.

You can either purge the KeyVault in the GUI, or use the PowerShell Az modules as follows:

```PowerShell
$ResourceGroupName = "{{ResourceGroupName}}"
Get-AzKeyVault -InRemovedState | Where-Object {
    $_.ResourceId -match "/resourceGroups/$($ResourceGroupName)/"
} | ForEach-Object {
    Remove-AzKeyVault -Name $_.VaultName -Location $_.Location -InRemovedState -Force
}

> ```

Author: Equally, this is unlikely to happen so should we just remove it?

Reviewer 2: There's a standard section format that @ferventcoder uses in docs for "`Common Errors and Resolutions`".

Example here: https://docs.chocolatey.org/en-us/central-management/setup/database#common-errors-and-resolutions

I suggest we follow the same format?

---
Order: 25
xref: qdeazure
Title: Quick Deployment Environment in Azure
Description: High level information about QDE in Azure
---

## Summary

This is an overview of the Chocolatey Quick Deployment Environment for Azure.

It is a deployable resource in the Microsoft Azure Marketplace, allowing for the speedy creation of an opinionated, pre-configured environment containing Chocolatey Central Management, a package repository (Nexus OSS), and an automation engine (Jenkins).

> :memo: **NOTE**
>
> A QDE environment is a fully functional Chocolatey for Business (C4B) environment; as such, it will require a business or trial license.

## QDE Components / Overview

For an overview of QDE, please refer to the existing [QDE Documentation](xref:qde).

## Prerequisites

Currently, to deploy QDE in Azure you will need:

* A Chocolatey for Business License, or Trial License
* An account with [Contributor](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/role-based-access-control/built-in-roles#contributor) access to an Azure subscription
* The ability to create a CNAME DNS record for your chosen FQDN

> * A valid certificate for your chosen FQDN, in PFX format, with exported private key

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* A valid certificate for your chosen FQDN, in PFX format, with exportable private key
```

#### Purchased/Acquired Certificates from CA

Organizations can also opt to purchase or acquire a certificate from an external Certificate Authority (e.g. [LetsEncrypt](https://github.com/win-acme/win-acme)).
As mentioned before, you will need to ensure that the "Subject/Common Name" attribute on the SSL certificates matches the FQDN you are using.
If you have a preferred vendor for certificates, you should refer to their documentation for best practices in acquiring a certificate.

You can also use a Microsoft Azure KeyVault and one of the [partnered CA Providers](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/key-vault/certificates/create-certificate#partnered-ca-providers) to create and fulfil a certificate request, though this may require additional configuration for your environment.

## Common Errors and Resolutions

### Status Message: Exist soft deleted vault with the same name.  (Code:ConflictError)

This can happen when you've deployed QDE in Azure, deleted the Resource Group, and then redeployed it with the same name.

> You can either purge the KeyVault in the GUI, or use the PowerShell Az modules as follows:

Reviewer 4: My only feedback is: what's the ~~GUI~~ Portal process?

Author: Fair. One minute, please!

| Service                           | Address                  | Initial Username |
| --------------------------------- | :----------------------- | ---------------- |
| **Chocolatey Central Management** | https://{{FQDN}}/        | ccmadmin         |
| **Sonatype Nexus**                | https://{{FQDN}}/nexus   | admin            |
| **Jenkins**                       | https://{{FQDN}}/jenkins | admin            |

Passwords to log in to the services have been stored in the KeyVault deployed to your Resource Group.

You can access these passwords either via the Azure Portal, or with PowerShell.

**Portal:**

1. Navigate to the Resource Group
1. Select the KeyVault
1. Under `Settings` on the left of the blade, select `Access Policies`
1. Click `+ Add Access Policy`
1. Select, at a minimum, `Secret Permissions`: `Get` and `List` *(You can use a Template such as `Secret Management`)*
1. Under `Select Principal`, click `None Selected` and find your current user, and select it
1. Click `Add`
1. Back on the `Access Policies` blade, hit `Save` and wait for the operation to complete

> You can now view and access the Secrets in this KeyVault.

Author: In this case, I was copying the way the Portal refers to them, though  it's probably more valid to just refer to them as "secrets" in general rather than Azure KeyVault Secrets (not-TM)

![SecretsView](https://github.com/chocolatey/docs/blob/4bfd76896a438d2fce0a8891c812eedf1d3cd64b/input/assets/images/quickdeployazure/KeyVault-Secrets.png)

---
Order: 25
xref: qdeazure
Title: Quick Deployment Environment in Azure
Description: High level information about QDE in Azure
---

## Summary

This is an overview of the Chocolatey Quick Deployment Environment for Azure.

It is a deployable resource in the Microsoft Azure Marketplace, allowing for the speedy creation of an opinionated, pre-configured environment containing Chocolatey Central Management, a package repository (Nexus OSS), and an automation engine (Jenkins).

> :memo: **NOTE**
>
> A QDE environment is a fully functional Chocolatey for Business (C4B) environment; as such, it will require a business or trial license.

## QDE Components / Overview

For an overview of QDE, please refer to the existing [QDE Documentation](xref:qde).

## Prerequisites

Currently, to deploy QDE in Azure you will need:

* A Chocolatey for Business License, or Trial License
* An account with [Contributor](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/role-based-access-control/built-in-roles#contributor) access to an Azure subscription
* The ability to create a CNAME DNS record for your chosen FQDN
* A valid certificate for your chosen FQDN, in PFX format, with exportable private key

> For portions of this document using PowerShell, we assume you have installed a recent version of the [Az modules](https://www.powershellgallery.com/packages/Az/) (easily available by running `choco install az.powershell` in an elevated prompt), and have logged in to your account using `Connect-AzAccount`. You can also set a variable, `$ResourceGroupName`, to the name of the group you deployed QDE to.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
For portions of this document using PowerShell, we assume you have installed a recent version of the [Az modules](https://www.powershellgallery.com/packages/Az/) (easily available by running `choco install az.powershell` in an elevated prompt), and have logged in to your account using `Connect-AzAccount`. You can also set a variable, `$ResourceGroupName`, to the name of the resource group you deployed QDE to as we will use this with the PowerShell code snippets below.
```

## Deploying QDE in Azure

QDE is available as a deployable resource in the [Microsoft Azure Marketplace](https://azuremarketplace.microsoft.com/en-us/marketplace/apps/chocolateysoftwareinc1605695330527.c4b_azure_qde).

Find the [Chocolatey For Business Azure Environment](https://portal.azure.com/#blade/Microsoft_Azure_Marketplace/GalleryItemDetailsBladeNopdl/id/chocolateysoftwareinc1605695330527.c4b_azure_qde) resource, and click `Create`. You will be taken to the `Create Chocolatey For Business Azure Environment` page.

### Basics

> Select the subscription, resource group, and region you intend to deploy to. As you currently need to deploy this to a resource group with no resources in, you may need to create a new resource group. You can do this by clicking the `Create new` button below the selector.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Select the subscription, resource group, and region you intend to deploy to. As you need to deploy this to an empty resource group, you may need to create a new one by clicking the `Create new` button below the selector.
```

Please see the table below for links to help from some popular registrars:

| Registrar  | Documentation |
| ---------- | ------------- |
| GoDaddy    | [Add a CNAME record](https://godaddy.com/help/add-a-cname-record-19236) |
| NameCheap  | [How to Create a CNAME Record For Your Domain](https://www.namecheap.com/support/knowledgebase/article.aspx/9646/2237/how-to-create-a-cname-record-for-your-domain/) |
| Cloudflare | [Managing DNS records in Cloudflare](https://support.cloudflare.com/hc/en-us/articles/360019093151-Managing-DNS-records-in-Cloudflare#h_60566325041543261564371) |
| Bluehost   | [How To Create & Edit CNAME](https://my.bluehost.com/hosting/help/resource/714) |
| 123-reg    | [Creating a CNAME record](https://www.123-reg.co.uk/support/domains/how-do-i-set-up-a-cname-record-on-my-domain-name/) |

If you need help with another registrar, we recommend searching for their documentation, or reaching out to their support.

### Configuring CCM

You will now be able to log in to CCM using the credentials provided in the KeyVault (see [Accessing Services](#accessing-services), below). You will need to configure an SMTP server before you can create new users in CCM.  

> Please refer to [SMTP Configuration](xref:ccm-website#step-4.2-smtp-configuration) before creating any users in CCM.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
You cannot create users in CCM until you have configured an SMTP server. To do this, please see [how to configure SMTP in CCM ](xref:ccm-website#step-4.2-smtp-configuration).
```

Reviewer 5: Can we also add this as a warning?

> You will now be able to log in to CCM using the credentials provided in the KeyVault (see [Accessing Services](#accessing-services), below). You will need to configure an SMTP server before you can create new users in CCM.  
> 
> You cannot create users in CCM until you have configured an SMTP server. To do this, please see [how to configure SMTP in CCM](xref:ccm-website#step-4.2-smtp-configuration).

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
You will now be able to log in to CCM using the credentials provided in the KeyVault (see [Accessing Services](#accessing-services), below).

You cannot create users in CCM until you have configured an SMTP server. To do this, please see [how to configure SMTP in CCM](xref:ccm-website#step-4.2-smtp-configuration).
```

Reviewer 5: @JPRuskin Can we also add this as a warning?
